code -> compiler -> byte code -> JVM (JIT+Interpreter) -> Binary code
JRE -> Inbuilt Libraries + JVM
JDK -> Development tools + JRE
Java is a high level programming language which is easily readable, understandable and instructable by programmer. Java is a platform independent language because in Java Source code is converted into byte code which is easily executable in any platform which has JVM.
JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine. It is physically doesn't exist. It is used to convert byte code into binary code. It consists of JIT and Interpreter. 
JRE-> Java Runtime Environment -> Physically exists. Its used to provide the environment to run the java programme. 
JDK-> It stands for JDK. It is physically exists. It provides an environment to run as well as to develop the java program. 
System.out.print-> After printing the data the cursor is shifted to next position in same line 
System.out.println -> After printing the data the cursor is shifted to next position in new line
Tokens -> The smallest part of java progam is known as tokens.
Four types of Tokens:
1) keywords -> 50+, compiler aware words, always in lower case (its predifined) . eg: class, public, static, void etc.
2) identifiers -> class name, variable name, package name, package name. The name given by progammer is known as identifier. 
Some rules : 
a) We can't use keywords as identifiers
b) We can't use space 
c) Can't start with numbers
d) We can't use special characters except _ and $ 
3) Literals: The value or data given by programmer is known as literals.
Types of Literals
a)Numbers:  10-> Integer number
            10.o -> Floating Numbers
b)characters:   It is used to represent a single data. It is enclosed in inside single qoute. Length of characters is always one. We can use uppercase characters, lowercase characters, digits, and all type of special characters
c) String:  It is used to represent group of characters. It is enclosed in inside double qoutes. The Length of string literal can be anything. 
d) Boolean: Boolean gives us only two values, either true or false
4) Seperators: Is used to seperate java memebers
{} -> blocks
() -> equations, method declarations, conditions
; -> end of the statements
, -> variables
. -> reference

Data Types: It is used to define what type of data we are storing in any variable
a)Primitive Datatype:
Inbuilt datatype, fixed size
Integer number: 
            types   size    in bits
            byte    1 byte  8 bits
            short   2 byte  16 bits
            int     4 byte  32 bits
            long    8 byte  64 bits
Floating numbers:
            Float   4 bytes 32 bits
            double  8 byte  64 bits
characters:
            char    2 byte  16 bits
bool:
            bool    1 bit
b)Non-primitive datatype:
->Does not have fixed size
-> User defined size, eg: String
Variables:
Types of variables:
1) Based on datatypes: primitive variables and non-primitive variables
2) Based on Scope : 
    a) Global Variable -> Declared inside a class, it has two types: static variable and non-static variable
    b) Local Variable -> Declared in a local area or a method 
Static variable: A variable which is declared inside the class area or global area prefixed with static keyword is known as static keyword
Non- Static variable: A variable which is declared inside the class area or global area prefixed without static keyword is known as non static keyword
Points
1)We can't use local variables without initilization
2)Local Varibables are not assigned with default value
3) We can't create two local variables with same name
4)Local variablea can be used only inside same local area
5) We can use global variables inside global areas as well as local areas
Q1) Area of Sqaure whose side is 4.2
Q2)Area of circle whose radius is 5
Q3) Area of rectangle whose length is 3.5 and breadth is 4
4)Operators:
Three Types:
    a) Unary Operator: 
        i)new, ii)increment operator, iii)Decrement operator, iv) Logical Not operator
                1)Pre Increment         1)Pre Decrement
                2)Post increment        2)Post Decrement
    b) Binary Operator :
        i)Arithmetic Operator, ii)Relationl Operator, iii) Logical AND Operator, iv) Logical OR Operator
    c) Ternary Operator: Conditional Operator

Increment operator:
    1)Pre-increment: 
        a)increase the value by 1
        b)Update the incremented value in same variable
        c)If any operation is going on, will have to use the incremented value
write a difference between primitive and non primitive
-> primitive is a fixed sized, predefined  while non primitive is not fixed size, the size is given by user. eg: int, float is primitive and string, array is non primitive
write a difference between local and global variable
->local variable is declared inside a method or local area. It doesn't have access outside that area. While global variable is declared inside a class. It can be accesseble through the whole class.
Diff b/w compiler and Interpreter
Compiler translates the whole program into machine code for faster execution while Interpreter execudes code line by line making it slower than compiler but is useful in cases of debugging and testing
Compiler convert the program into byte code.

Difference between platform dependent and independent
Platform-dependent software runs only on specific operating systems/hardware (like C/C++ compiled to native code), while platform-independent software runs anywhere via an intermediary like a Virtual Machine (JVM for Java), allowing "write once, run anywhere" for Java, Python, etc., by compiling to intermediate bytecode/P-code that a specific platform's interpreter handles. The key difference is portability

How does Object Oriented Nature of Java helps in software Development
structures software around objects rather than actions or logic, offering several key advantages for software development .
Why Java is considered simple language compare c/c++
-> Java is considered a simpler language than c/c++ because of its portability.  it abstracts away complex, low-level tasks like manual memory management and direct pointer manipulation, allowing developers to focus more on application logic. It also allocate memory automaticallu while in c++ we have to allocate manually
How does Java provide security and Runtime
-> Java provides security through a multi-layered architecture involving built-in language features and a robust runtime environment (JRE), which includes the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). This system creates a secure "sandbox" for executing code and provides extensive security APIs for developers. 
what makes java as robust language
emphasize early error detection, effective error management, and reliable memory handling, which collectively promote application stability and resilience
How does Java achieve high performance
-> Java achieves high performance primarily through the advanced optimizations within the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), especially its Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler and sophisticated garbage collection mechanisms. 
What do you mean by portability in Java ?
-> Portability in Java means it can run on any platform as it is platform independent language. Doesn't need any particular configuration. Just have to have the JVM so that it converts the byte code into machine readable code.
Why does Java have strong industry adoption and job opportunities 

Operators:
Byte + Byte = Compile Time Error
short + short = Compile Time Error
char + char = Compiler Time Error
Numeric values/char => <,>,<=.>=,==,!=
string and Boolean => ==,!=




Q4)A customer gets a discount if they are a premium member or if their cart value exceeds $5000 during a smallest->Identify the logical condition

Q7)An online order is confirmed only when payment is succesfull and either stock is available or backorder is allowed

Q8)A job applicant is eligible for interview if they have at least 2 years of experience or strong project experience, 
but they must hace completed graduation

Q9)A system should send an alert if login attempts exceed 3 and the account is not locked

Q10)A movie ticket booking is allowed if seats are available and the user has either a membership or a valid promo code

Q11) a bank transction is permitted only if the account balance is sufficient and the account is active and not frozen

Q12) A candidate clears a coding test if they pass the logic round and the coding round, or if they have a strong referral


Q13)A mobile app feature is enabled if the user is logged in and has accepted terms and conditions

Q14)A system backup runs only when it is midnight and the server load is low or the sytsem is in maintenance mode

Q15)A student qualified for placement if they have no active backlogs and either a minimum CGPA or internship experience

TypeCasting:
2 Types:
1) Primitive Typecasting - Not Reccomended -> DataTypes
2) Non Primitive Typecasting - Highly Reccomended -> Class
1) Primitive Typecasting : 2 Types:
i)Widening (Implicit)
ii) Narrowing (explicit)
i)Widening: Implicitly converting by compiler
byte<short(char)<int<long<float<double
value to char is not possible (Implicitly)
ii)Narrowing: Converting longer range data types into shorter range data types
double>float>long>int>short(char)>byte 
Compiler will not do it Implicitly because of possible lossy connection
Explicit conversion -> progammer ->Typecast Operators
Syntax: Smaller primitive datatype var=(smaller datatype) larger datatype var;
eg: int i=150;
    byte b=(byte) i;
    Output: -106;
    Even the byte is out of range, it keeps going in loop in a range from -128 to 127

Scanner class:
    Steps:
        -> Import java.util.Scanner;
        -> Declare Scanner Class Object;
        -> Can declare in class block as well as Method block
    Syntax:
    Scanner Obj_Ref_name=new Scanner(System.in)
    In bulit Methods of Scanner Class:
    nextByte(), nextShort(), nextInt(), nextLong(), nextFloat(), nextDouble(), nextBoolean(),
    next().charAt(0), next(), nextLine()
    ->syntax:datatype var=Scanner obj.InBuild method
    To stop resource leak(its just a warning which happens when we declare scanner in method block), we need to obj.close()

Control Statements
Three Types:
1)Decision Making statement	2)Looping Statement	3)Jumping Statement
i)if                        i)do while->exit    i)break
ii)if else                  ii)while->entry     ii)continue
iii)if else ladder          iii)for->entry      iii)return
iv)switch                   iv)foreach
v)Nested if                 v)nested loop

boolean, float, double, long -> These four values should not be used in case values according to industry standards

22nd Decemeber Assignment questions:
1. Online cab booking validation
A cab can be booked only if the driver is available, the user location is serviceable, and payment mode is selected

2. Employee Attendance System
An employee is marked:
"Present" if working hours more than 8
"Half-Day" if working hours between 4 and 8
"Abset" if working hours is less than 4
Question: Write java decision logic to display Attendance status.

3. Bank Account Status Check
An account is:
"Active" if balance more than or equals minimum balance"
"Low Balance" if balance is less than minimum balance
"Frozen" if the account is flagged
Question:Write the decision-making logic to determine account status